Create a Database:

Create a database named LibraryDB.

Create Tables:

Create the following tables with appropriate data types and constraints:
Authors: author_id (Primary Key, Auto Increment), name, country.

Books: book_id (Primary Key, Auto Increment), title, author, published_year, genre.

while inserting insert genre as null. 

Members: member_id (Primary Key, Auto Increment), name, email (Unique), phone, join_date.

Insert meaningful 8 to 10 records in each table ie Authors, Books, Members 

Update the genre for few books Classic Fiction, Science Fiction, Horror etc 

Delete Records:

Remove a member who is no longer active.

Basic Query:

List all books with their details.

Filter Data:

Find books published after the year 1950.

Aggregate Functions:

Count the total number of books.

Simple Query with Condition:

Find all authors from the United Kingdom.

Group and Count:

Count books by genre.

Modify the Members Table:

Write a query to add a new column membership_type to the Members table

Drop a Column:

Write a query to remove the phone column from the Members table.

Insert Data into Authors:

Insert the following authors into the Authors table:
J.K. Rowling, United Kingdom.
George Orwell, United Kingdom.
Mark Twain, United States.


Insert Data into Members:

Add a new member with the following details:
name: Jane Doe
email: jane.doe@example.com
phone: 1234567890

Update Author Country:

Update the country for George Orwell to USA.

Delete a Member:

Delete the member whose email is bob@example.com.

Retrieve All Authors:

Write a query to fetch all details of authors.

Find Authors by Country:

List all authors from the United Kingdom.

Count Members:

Write a query to find the total number of members in the Members table.

Filter Members by Join Date:

Retrieve the names and emails of members who joined after 2024-01-01.


Group Members by Membership Type:

Find the number of members in each membership_type


Bonus Challenges
Custom Query on Authors:

Write a query to find authors whose names start with the letter J.

Custom Query on Members:

Retrieve all members whose phone number contains 123.

